[TW-598] Azure DevOps Pipelines integration (#4234)
postmanlabs/postman-docs: src/pages/docs/integrations/available-integrations/ci-integrations/azure-pipelines.md

---
title: "Azure Pipelines"

> page_id: "azure-pipelines"

Author: Fixed.

updated: 2022-10-20
warning: false
contextual_links:
  - type: section
    name: "Prerequisites"
  - type: link
    name: "CI Integrations"
    url: "/docs/integrations/ci-integrations/"
---

[Azure Pipelines](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/devops/pipelines/) is a continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD) service that's integrated with Microsoft Azure DevOps. Software development teams can use Azure Pipelines to automatically build, test, and deploy code in Azure DevOps.

To set up an Azure Pipelines integration for your API, first create a repository in a [version control system supported by Azure Pipelines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/repos/). Create a pipeline in the repository, and then configure your API in Postman. After you set up the integration, you can view the status of builds (pipelines) from within Postman.

> The Azure Pipelines integration isn't available on Azure DevOps Server (hosted on-premises).

## Contents

* [Creating a pipeline in Azure DevOps](#creating-a-pipeline-in-azure-devops)

> * [Configuring an Azure Pipelines integration](#configuring-an-azure-pipelines-integration)

Reviewer: (optional) we could combine these two sections as they are both fundamentally about the setup. The docs has a lot of headings and `Creating a pipeline in Azure DevOps` is a very short section, so combining it could make the doc more breathable

Author: Let's keep these separate for now. Each section covers something different. Separating the sections helps keep each section focused on something specific.

If you haven't already, create a repository for your API in a version control system supported by Azure Pipelines. Then create a pipeline in the repository. To create a pipeline, add a YAML file in your repository. You define your pipeline in this YAML file. To learn more, see [the Azure Pipelines documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/get-started/pipelines-get-started).

## Configuring an Azure Pipelines integration

1. Open your API by selecting **APIs** in the sidebar. *Each API version can be linked to one CI project*.
1. Select the **Test and Automation**.
1. Under **Automate**, select **Azure Pipelines**.
1. You'll be prompted to allow Postman to access your Azure DevOps account. After you grant access, you can close the browser tab and return to Postman.

    > **Make sure to enable third-party application access for your organization.** In Azure DevOps, go to your [organization settings](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/accounts/change-application-access-policies?view=azure-devops), select **Policies**, and turn on the toggle next to **Third-party application access via OAuth**.

> 1. Enter a **Nickname** to help you recognize the integration later. Postman pre-fills a nickname in the format `Azure Pipelines-{API_NAME}`, and you can edit it if you want.

Reviewer: (optional) Not a native speaker, but curious here. If you capitalize _Nickname_, it feels like it'd become a proper noun, in which case the indefinite article should not be here. What's wrong about my reasoning?

Author: Good question! We are capitalizing "Nickname" and making it bold because it aligns with our [style guide](https://github.com/postmanlabs/postman-docs/blob/develop/DOCS_STYLE_GUIDE.md#formatting-and-structure) of using bold to highlight names for parts of the software that the user interacts with.

This formatting helps clarify what we're asking the user to add, and also makes the content easier to scan.

In terms of the grammar, it's the same as writing "Enter a nickname to help you recognize..."

1. Select the Azure DevOps **Organization** with your pipeline.
1. Select the Azure **DevOps project** used for your API.
1. Select **Connect**.

> <img alt="Connect to Azure DevOps Pipelines" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/azure-pipelines-connect-project-v10.jpg" width="518px">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img alt="Connect to Azure Pipelines" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/azure-pipelines-connect-project-v10.jpg" width="518px">
```

## Viewing build status

> After you set up an Azure Pipelines integration, information for build jobs (pipeline runs) is available in Postman. For each build you can view the branch, start time, duration, and status (`Succeeded` or `Failed`). You can also view the results of collection runs that are [configured in your pipeline using the Postman CLI](#viewing-collection-run-details).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you set up an Azure Pipelines integration, information for build jobs (pipeline runs) is available in Postman. For each build you can view the branch, start time, duration, and status (`Successful` or `Failed`). You can also view the results of collection runs that are [configured in your pipeline using the Postman CLI](#viewing-collection-run-details).
```

Reviewer 2: The screenshot shows `Successful`

> To view build jobs, open an API version and select the **Test** tab. The most recent jobs are listed under **CI/CD Builds**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view build jobs, open an API version and select **Test and Automation**. The most recent jobs are listed under the repository name.
```

Reviewer 2: There is also an occurrence of "Test tab" on the `bitbucket-pipelines.md` page (line 80). Would you mind fixing that one as well?

Author: Good catch! This is now fixed in both places.

> You can't start Azure Pipelines builds directly in Postman. To start a new build, go to Azure DevOps.

Select **View All Builds** to view the full list of build jobs. From here you can take the following actions:

* Use the dropdown lists to filter jobs by branch or build status.

> * To view a build in Azure DevOps, select the build name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To view a build on the Azure DevOps website, select the build name.
```

(optional) It could be explicit we're talking about the web UI here.

Author: Thanks, Jan. This is a format we follow in all of our CI integrations, so it isn't only an Azure Pipelines change. Let's keep this as is for now. I will bring up your feedback with my manager.

* To get the latest build status information, select <img alt="Refresh icon" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/icon-refresh-v9-5.jpg#icon" width="14px"> **Refresh**.
* To edit or delete the integration, select the more actions icon <img alt="More actions icon" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/icon-more-actions-v9.jpg#icon" width="16px">.

> * To view more details for a build, use the arrows to expand a build and expand **Build Steps**. For each build step you can view the name, duration, and status.

Reviewer 2: From the screenshot, it doesn't look like you have a "Build Steps" node to expand. Delete this bullet?

Author: Good catch. This was already removed from the other CI integrations. This is now fixed.

<img alt="View Azure Pipelines collection runs" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/azure-collection-runs-v10.jpg">

> Select **View Report** to view a collection run report in the Postman **History**. Learn more about using the [Collection Runner](/docs/running-collections/intro-to-collection-runs/).

## Viewing API Governance and API Security rule violations

Using the Postman CLI, you can enforce [API Governance and API Security rules each time the pipeline runs](/docs/api-governance/api-definition/api-definition-warnings/#tracking-governance-and-security-rule-violations-in-cicd) using the [`api lint` command](/docs/postman-cli/postman-cli-options/#governance-and-security) ([Enterprise teams only](https://www.postman.com/pricing/)).

> To view the results of API Governance and API Security checks that ran as part of the build, first [configure the Postman CLI for Azure Pipelines](#configuring-the-postman-cli-for-azure-pipelines) and then start a new build on Azure DevOps. After the build is complete, use the arrows to expand a build and expand an API definition to view any rule violations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the results of API Governance and API Security checks that ran as part of the build, first [configure the Postman CLI for Azure Pipelines](#configuring-the-postman-cli-for-azure-pipelines) and then trigger a new build on Azure DevOps. After the build is complete, use the arrows to expand a build and expand an API definition to view any rule violations.
```

(optional) Azure uses the verb _trigger_ [ref](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/get-started/key-pipelines-concepts?view=azure-devops), so it'd feel polished to align. Just a suggestion!

Author: Thanks, Jan. I don't think we need to be consistent in this way with Azure Pipelines. We use "start build" or "run build" in the docs and Postman UI, so I think it's better to be consistent here.

Instead of pointing to [Pipelines run sequence](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/process/runs?view=azure-devops) on `line 71`, I'm wondering if it would be more helpful to point to [Specify events that trigger pipelines](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/build/triggers?view=azure-devops). This way we could point users to more specific information about starting/triggering builds. What do you think?

Reviewer 3: Sounds good!

Author: This is now updated.

> <img alt="View API Governance and API Security results" src="https://assets.postman.com/postman-docs/v10/azure-api-governance-and-security-results-v10.jpg">

Reviewer 2: Screenshot needs a border

Author: I confirmed that the screenshot has a border. The team is looking into the disappearing border issue at https://postmanlabs.atlassian.net/browse/MARKENG-1927

## Configuring the Postman CLI for Azure Pipelines

> With the help of the Postman CLI and the Postman API, you can run API tests created in Postman as part of your Azure DevOps pipeline. First generate the Postman CLI configuration code in Postman. Then add the configuration code to the YAML file in your repository.

Reviewer: (optional) As a developer, I wouldn't know what are "API tests". Tried to rephrase a bit to make it more obvious what we mean

```suggestion
With the help of the Postman CLI and the Postman API, you can run Postman test collections as part of your Azure DevOps pipeline. First, generate the Postman CLI configuration code in Postman. Then add the configuration code to the YAML file in your repository.
```

[Azure Pipelines](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/devops/pipelines/) is a continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD) service that's integrated with Microsoft Azure DevOps. Software development teams can use Azure Pipelines to automatically build, test, and deploy code in Azure DevOps.

> To set up an Azure Pipelines integration for your API, first create a pipeline in Azure DevOps and then configure your API in Postman. <!-- repository in a [version control system supported by Azure Pipelines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/repos/). Create a pipeline in the repository, and then configure your API in Postman.-->After you set up the integration, you can view the status of builds (pipelines) from within Postman.

Reviewer 3: Is this <!-- syntax intentional? Unsure what's the reasoning, the content seems largely the same.

Author: Thanks for bringing this up! Yes, this is intentional. That syntax is a comment, so anything inside that will not display in the docs. My intention is to preserve this content because it will become relevant when we allow users to use other repositories with the integration.

## Configuring the Postman CLI for Azure Pipelines

> With the help of the Postman CLI and the Postman API, you can run API tests created in Postman as part of your Azure DevOps pipeline. First generate the Postman CLI configuration code in Postman. Then add the configuration code to the YAML file in your Azure Repos Git repository.

Reviewer 3: I think `Azure Repos repository` would be the correct reference as Git should be implied (Azure Repos doesn't host other kinds of repositories.

Author: I wrote "Azure Repos Git repository" because this is how they refer to it in the Azure Pipelines docs and UI. See https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/repos/azure-repos-git?view=azure-devops&tabs=yaml

What do you think?

Author: I left the first occurrence as "Azure Repos Git repository" because of the reason mentioned above. Also, the text is hyperlinked and points to an Azure Pipelines page that uses this same language. In other occurrences in the Postman docs, I changed this to "Azure Repos repository".

To add the Postman CLI configuration to your Azure DevOps pipeline, do the following:

> 1. Create a new YAML file in your Azure Repos Git repository, and then edit the file.

Reviewer 3: Same as above.

Author: This is now updated.

1. Create a new YAML file in your repository, and then edit the file.
1. Add the Postman CLI configuration you copied from Postman to the YAML file:

>     * Replace all instances of `$(POSTMAN_API_KEY)` with a valid [Postman API Key](/docs/developer/intro-api/#generating-a-postman-api-key).

Reviewer 4: No, we recommend users to store the key in azure pipelines secret manager. Ref: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/process/set-secret-variables?view=azure-devops&tabs=yaml%2Cbash
